39-17-1309. Carrying weapons on school property.

a.  As used in this section, “weapon of like kind” includes razors and razor
    blades, except those used solely for personal shaving, and any sharp pointed
    or edged instrument, except unaltered nail files and clips and tools used
    solely for preparation of food, instruction and maintenance.
b.  1.  It is an offense for any person to possess or carry, whether openly or
        concealed, with the intent to go armed, any firearm, explosive,
        explosive weapon, bowie knife, hawk bill knife, ice pick, dagger,
        slingshot, leaded cane, switchblade knife, blackjack, knuckles or any
        other weapon of like kind, not used solely for instructional or
        school-sanctioned ceremonial purposes, in any public or private school
        building or bus, on any public or private school campus, grounds,
        recreation area, athletic field or any other property owned, operated,
        or while in use by any board of education, school, college or university
        board of trustees, regents or directors for the administration of any
        public or private educational institution.
    2.  A violation of this subsection (b) is a Class E felony.
c.  1.  A.  It is an offense for any person to possess or carry, whether openly
            or concealed, any firearm, not used solely for instructional or
            school-sanctioned ceremonial purposes, in any public or private
            school building or bus, on any public or private school campus,
            grounds, recreation area, athletic field or any other property
            owned, operated, or while in use by any board of education, school,
            college or university board of trustees, regents or directors for
            the administration of any public or private educational institution.
        B.  It is not an offense under this subsection (c) for a nonstudent
            adult to possess a firearm, if the firearm is contained within a
            private vehicle operated by the adult and is not handled by the
            adult, or by any other person acting with the expressed or implied
            consent of the adult, while the vehicle is on school property.
    2.  A violation of this subsection (c) is a Class B misdemeanor.
d.  1.  Each chief administrator of a public or private school shall display in
        prominent locations about the school a sign, at least six inches (6")
        high and fourteen inches (14") wide, stating:

        FELONY. STATE LAW PRESCRIBES A MAXIMUM PENALTY OF SIX (6) YEARS
        IMPRISONMENT AND A FINE NOT TO EXCEED THREE THOUSAND DOLLARS ($3,000)
        FOR CARRYING WEAPONS ON SCHOOL PROPERTY.
    2.  As used in this subsection (d), “prominent locations about a school”
        includes, but is not limited to, sports arenas, gymnasiums, stadiums and
        cafeterias.
e.  Subsections (b) and (c) do not apply to the following persons:
    1.  Persons employed in the army, air force, navy, coast guard or marine
        service of the United States or any member of the Tennessee national
        guard when in discharge of their official duties and acting under orders
        requiring them to carry arms or weapons;
    2.  Civil officers of the United States in the discharge of their official
        duties;
    3.  Officers and soldiers of the militia and the national guard when called
        into actual service;
    4.  Officers of the state, or of any county, city or town, charged with the
        enforcement of the laws of the state, when in the discharge of their
        official duties;
    5.  Any pupils who are members of the reserve officers training corps or
        pupils enrolled in a course of instruction or members of a club or team,
        and who are required to carry arms or weapons in the discharge of their
        official class or team duties;
    6.  Any private police employed by the administration or board of trustees
        of any public or private institution of higher education in the
        discharge of their duties;
    7.  Any registered security guard/officer who meets the requirements of
        title 62, chapter 35, and who is discharging the officer's official
        duties;
    8.  A.  Persons possessing a handgun, who are authorized to carry the
            handgun pursuant to § 39-17-1351, while within or on a public park,
            natural area, historic park, nature trail, campground, forest,
            greenway, waterway, or other similar public place;
        B.  Subdivision (e)(8)(A) shall not apply if the enhanced handgun carry
            permit holder:
            i.  Possessed a handgun on property described in subdivision
                (e)(8)(A) that is owned or operated by a board of education,
                school, college, or university board of trustees, regents, or
                directors unless the permit holder's possession is otherwise
                excepted by this subsection (e); or
           ii.  Possessed a handgun in the immediate vicinity of property that
                was, at the time of possession, in use by any board of
                education, school, college or university board of trustees,
                regents, or directors for the administration of any public or
                private educational institution for the purpose of conducting an
                athletic event or other school-related activity on an athletic
                field, permanent or temporary, including but not limited to, a
                football or soccer field, tennis court, basketball court, track,
                running trail, Frisbee field, or any similar multi-use field;
                and
          iii.  Knew or should have known that:
                a.  An athletic event or school-related activity described in
                    subdivision (e)(8)(B)(ii) was taking place on the property
                    at the time of the possession; or
                b.  The property on which the possession occurred was owned or
                    operated by a school entity described in subdivision
                    (e)(8)(B)(ii); or
           iv.  Failed to take reasonable steps to leave the area of the
                athletic field or school-related activity or the property after
                being informed or becoming aware of:
                a.  Its use for athletic or school-related purposes; or
                b.  That it was, at the time of the possession, owned or
                    operated by a school entity described in (e)(8)(B)(ii);
    9.  Persons permitted to carry a handgun on the property of private K-12
        schools by § 49-50-803, and persons permitted to carry a handgun on the
        property of private for-profit or nonprofit institutions of higher
        education pursuant to § 49-7-161; provided, that this subdivision (e)(9)
        shall apply only:
        A.  To the school or institution where the person is located, when that
            school or institution has adopted a handgun carry policy pursuant to
            § 49-50-803 or § 49-7-161;
        B.  While the person is on the property or grounds covered by the
            private school or institution's policy; and
        C.  When the person is otherwise in compliance with the policy adopted
            by the private school or institution;
   10.  Persons carrying a handgun pursuant to § 49-6-809, § 49-6-815, or §
        49-6-816; provided, that this subdivision (e)(10) shall apply only
        within and on the grounds of the school for which the person is
        authorized;
   11.  A.  Employees authorized to carry a handgun pursuant to § 39-17-1351 on
            property owned, operated, or controlled by the public institution of
            higher education at which the employee is employed;
        B.  i.  Any authorized employee who elects to carry a handgun pursuant
                to this subdivision (e)(11) shall provide written notification
                to the law enforcement agency or agencies with jurisdiction over
                the property owned, operated, or controlled by the public
                institution of higher education that employs the employee;
           ii.  The employee's name and any other information that might
                identify the employee as a person who has elected to carry a
                handgun pursuant to this subdivision (e)(11) shall be
                confidential, not open for public inspection, and shall not be
                disclosed by any law enforcement agency with which an employee
                registers; except that the employee's name and other information
                may be disclosed to an administrative officer of the institution
                who is responsible for school facility security; provided,
                however, that the administrative officer is not the employee's
                immediate supervisor or a supervisor responsible for evaluation
                of the employee. An administrative officer to whom such
                information is disclosed shall not disclose the information to
                another person. Identifying information about the employee
                collected pursuant to this subdivision (e)(11) shall not be
                disclosed to any person or entity other than another law
                enforcement agency and only for law enforcement purposes; and
          iii.  Law enforcement agencies are authorized to develop and
                implement:
                a.  Policies and procedures designed to implement the
                    notification and confidentiality requirements of this
                    subdivision (e)(11)(B); and
                b.  A voluntary course or courses of special or supplemental
                    firearm training to be offered to the employees electing to
                    carry a handgun pursuant to this subdivision (e)(11).
                c.  Firearm safety shall be a component of any firearm course;
        C.  Unless carrying a handgun is a requirement of the employee's job
            description, the carrying of a handgun pursuant to this subdivision
            (e)(11) is a personal choice of the employee and not a requirement
            of the employer. Consequently, an employee who carries a handgun on
            property owned, operated, or controlled by the public institution of
            higher education at which the employee is employed is not:
            i.  Acting in the course of or scope of their employment when
                carrying or using the handgun;
           ii.  Entitled to workers' compensation benefits under §
                9-8-307(a)(1)(K) for injuries arising from the carrying or use
                of a handgun;
          iii.  Immune from personal liability with respect to use or carrying
                of a handgun under § 9-8-307(h);
           iv.  Permitted to carry a handgun openly, or in any other manner in
                which the handgun is visible to ordinary observation; or
            v.  Permitted to carry a handgun at the following times and at the
                following locations:
                a.  Stadiums, gymnasiums, and auditoriums when school-sponsored
                    events are in progress;
                b.  In meetings regarding disciplinary matters;
                c.  In meetings regarding tenure issues;
                d.  A hospital, or an office where medical or mental health
                    services are the primary services provided; and
                e.  Any location where a provision of state or federal law,
                    except the posting provisions of § 39-17-1359, prohibits the
                    carrying of a handgun on that property;
        D.  Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, a public institution
            of higher education shall be absolutely immune from claims for
            monetary damages arising solely from or related to an employee's use
            of, or failure to use, a handgun; provided the employee is employed
            by the institution against whom the claim is filed and the employee
            elects to carry the handgun pursuant to this subdivision (e)(11).
            Nothing in this section shall expand the existing conditions under
            which sovereign immunity is waived pursuant to § 9-8-307; and
        E.  As used in subdivisions (e)(11)-(13):
            i.  “Employee” includes all faculty, staff, and other persons who
                are employed on a full-time basis by a public institution of
                higher education; and
           ii.  “Employee” does not include a person who is enrolled as a
                student at a public institution of higher education, regardless
                of whether the person is also an employee;
   12.  A.  Any employee of the University of Tennessee institute of agriculture
            or a college or department of agriculture at a campus in the
            University of Tennessee system when in the discharge of the
            employee's official duties and with prior authorization from the
            chancellor of the University of Tennessee institute of agriculture;
            or
        B.  Any employee of the University of Tennessee institute of agriculture
            or a college or department of agriculture at a campus in the
            University of Tennessee system, and any member of the employee's
            household, living in a residence owned, used, or operated by the
            University of Tennessee, if the employee has prior authorization
            from the chancellor of the University of Tennessee institute of
            agriculture and the employee and household members are permitted to
            possess firearms in their residence under Tennessee and federal law;
            and
   13.  A.  Any employee of the university's college or department of
            agriculture when in the discharge of the employee's official duties
            and with prior authorization from the president of a university in
            the board of regents system;
        B.  Any employee of the university's college or department of
            agriculture, and any member of the employee's household, living in a
            residence owned, used, or operated by the university, if the
            employee has prior authorization from the president of a university
            in the board of regents system and the employee and household
            members are permitted to possess firearms in their residence under
            Tennessee and federal law; or
        C.  Any employee, with prior authorization of the president of a
            university in the board of regents system, who is engaged in
            wildlife biology or ecology research and education for the purpose
            of capture or collection of specimens.

